Hello, and welcome to this course
on mastering the design process.
And whatever your background,
I'm pretty convinced that this
course is gonna prove helpful.
So whether you work in-house, whether
you're a freelancer, whether you work for
an agency.
The advice that I'm gonna give today
should really help you to get control of
design projects.
And the advice that I'm gonna
give will apply pretty much,
whether you're working on an app,
whether you're working on a mobile app or
a web app, it makes no difference,
whether you're working on a website.
So whatever you're working on,
the advice I'm gonna give should help you
better manage those design projects and
avoid some of the pitfalls
that come with design.
Cuz I'm guessing that because
you are watching this course on
Frontend Masters that you love your
code and you love doing coding.
But my question for you is,
can you say the same about design?
The truth is, design projects
are pretty challenging, aren't they?
When it comes to coding,
it either works or it doesn't.
Yes, you can debate about
the best way of coding and
how to go about approaching
it in the right way.
But at the end of the day, there's nobody
really sitting over your shoulder,
sharing their personal impressions of it,
are there?
And those people that are commenting
on your code, at least, probably know
something about code, your average
stakeholder or client isn't gonna do that.
But design, on the other hand, everybody's
got an opinion about, everybody thinks
they're right, and that is what
we're gonna get into in this course.
We're gonna look at how
to overcome some of those
challenges that we face as
designers running design projects.
But before we get into that,
I think it's worth just me introducing
myself a little bit first.
My name is Paul Boag.
I've been working in this industry for
over 27 years.
Now, I'm ashamed to say,
13 of which I have been involved
in running my own agency.
So I'm very familiar with
running design projects or
that my agency was a full stack agency,
we did both design and development.
And then since then, I've spent
the last six, seven years, whatever,
I can't remember exactly, working on
advising and helping other agencies and
freelancers to optimize their processes,
and how they go about working.
So I'm very familiar with some
of the challenges that go around
working on design projects.
And I've worked on projects for
all sizes of clients as well.
And so whether you happen to work for
large multinational companies, or
whether you work for small startups,
the advice I'm gonna share today,
I think is gonna be relevant.
No matter the size of
the company worked for,
no matter the sector that you work for.
So what am I gonna share?
Well basically, what I'm gonna
share is my experience of running
design projects in the last 27 years.
Experience that I regularly share online
via my blog, and my books, and my emails.
And actually, in this slide deck
that I'm gonna be sharing with you,
I've got links and detailed information on
everything I've talked about on my site.
So there'll be links that you can click
through, and go read more information.
I've got links to all of the apps,
etc., that I cover on this.
So the slide deck, I'm hoping, is gonna
be really useful for you after the fact.
And I've got a lot of information that
may be, you're not gonna be able to read
everything that's on the screen
as we go through, but
afterwards you can return to it.
So there you go, that's a little
bit of background information.
Let's now, dive in and
look at what we're gonna cover today.
We're essentially gonna look
at four key areas, okay?
And these really are the four factors
that make the biggest difference over
whether a project like a design-based
project is successful or not.
So the first one is how you actually run
the design project, how you organize it,
how you structure it,
the different processes that you use.
All of that kind of information will
help you tailor your projects in such
a way that you get less pushback
when it comes to the design.
And don't worry those of you
who are very technical-based,
that doesn't undermine how you will
inherently want to work on projects.
In fact, it complements it quite well.
So we're gonna look at how to run
a design project really well.
We're also gonna look at how to go
about producing those initial design
concepts in a way that, again,
it reduces the amount of friction,
and conflict, and
disagreement people get about the design.
And people coming up with comments like,
I don't like the color, or
it just doesn't wow me, or
can you make my logo bigger.
All the classic things that you hear
when you have to deal with design.
Once we've looked at how to produce the
initial design, then we're gonna get into,
well, how do you present
that in a compelling way?
And specifically, how do you manage
the feedback you get on design?
And ensure that that feedback doesn't
become really problematic, all right?
Then finally,
we're gonna look at what happens when
that design is actually built, okay?
So whether you're building
the design yourself or
you're getting someone
else to build it for you.
There can often be compromises
made during the build process, and
that's fine, and that's as it should be.
But how do we ensure that the design
survives that process and
more importantly,
survives post launch, right?
So once your website is out in the world,
what happens to it then?
Because, let's be honest, we've all been
in situations where we've gotten our
portfolio, we worked on this site and
it looked great in the screenshot.
And then people click through,
and go and see the live site,
and it looks like a train wreck, because
it hasn't survived the test of time.
So to the person that said about they're
looking to learn more design and
how to become a better designer,
that there is already a course that
we produced about how to create
compelling websites that convert.
So you might wanna check that one out,
because that will be much more helpful
in doing the design fundamentals and
what makes good design.
This course is more about how to get that
sign off, [LAUGH] which is the critical
thing, and how to keep the design
moving through the process.
So, yeah, I think this will be from
the audience you've just described.
It's gonna be a helpful
presentation to anybody, really,
who is either actively involved in design,
wants to be doing more design work or
as one of the people here today,
described it is just designed curious.
This will be a really great course for
all of you guys.